advancing from surface shader is to volumetric
shakers is for a procedural workflow.
Actually not that big of a difference
apart from the fact that there is an additional dimension
to take care of compared to the two day space.
But if you think about it in a lot of cases,
we were already using three dimensional coordinate space
for the textures whenever adding a noise texture.
Using for example, object coordinates or generated coordinates.
The texture that is displayed on the measures surface
Is simply the intersection of a 3D texture in the coordinate space and that surface
that gets more clearly visible.
When I simply duplicate this, playing a bunch of times
Every individual plane displays a two dimensional intersection of the 3D texture
that gets visible as what is essentially a volume of planes.
The most striking difference for volumetric shading is the shader itself.
Volumetric materials interact with light in a completely different way than
surfaces and thus you need a totally different shader type as well
as the volumetric counterpart to a principal be sdf shader.
There is also the principal volume shader
instead of the inputs to characterize the surface properties,
the principal volume shader takes as inputs properties of the volume.
Like the density for example,
I'm not going to go into as much detail about the
inputs of this shader as it did for the surface shader
color and density are pretty self explanatory.
They simply control the color and the density of the volume.
The anti Satrapi setting controls similarly to the nice entropy
of surface reflections if there is a preferred direction,
how the light is scattered in the volume
and the absorption color can be used to
easily control the color of the volumetric shadows.
A great way of previewing the density and color
of a volumetric shader is using a mission instead,
this is essentially the volumetric equivalent to
using an emission shader as a viewer
note for the surface textures and it takes much less computing power to display them
as a practical application,
volumetric emission is really important for
fire explosions in similar volumetric light effects
using cycles. This emission also casts light onto the surrounding objects.
The remaining parameters mostly focus on the use for smoke and fire.
Using simulation data
for example,
the attribute parameters that take these text inputs are used to
directly hook up the material to the volume data from simulations.
The black body parameters are used alongside the temperature
to get a more physically accurate representation of glowing volumes
and that is all I want to say about the shade of properties for now.
But before we can start working on procedural volumetric shakers,
it is advisable to quickly touch how the
Miranda engines even cycles handle these shakers differently
cycles.
When rendering volumetric shader creates a lot of
noise because there is no clearly defined surface and
the whole volume of the mesh has to essentially
be scanned for its density and volumetric properties,
especially when trying to deny the rendered image.
You can see that having information about the surface is highly beneficial,
which for volumetric objects you inherently can't have.
You can control the step size that the race take for rendering.
With cycles in the volumes. Panel of the rental properties
lower volumes will give you a more accurate but also more dense looking result.
This parameter, however, also has a large impact on the Iran the time.
Even on the other hand,
has a lot more settings to adjust how volumetrics are rendered and you should
get familiar with how they work to make the most out of the quality.
The way E.
V handles volumes is actually similar to the method
of stacked planes that I showed you earlier.
E. V.
Creates a bunch of slices to the volume that are parallel
to the view plane and uses these to approximate the volume
the number of slicing planes and with that also the
resolution of the volume depends on the number of samples.
The dedicated volume samples can be adjusted in the volumetric settings of
the rendered properties that show up when you select obviously render engine
but as you can see the regular sample count of the render settings also
plays a role and scales up the number of planes as a factor.
The planes are positioned between the start
and the end distance relative to the camera
and their distribution is adjusted to have a higher density closer to the camera.
You can also adjust this with the distribution parameter
to make use of these planes as efficiently as possible.
You want to make sure that the start and end parameter fit
the minimum and maximum distance to the camera for which you need.
Volumetric shading
these planes essentially control the resolution of
the volume in the depth dimension.
To control the resolution of the E. V.
Volume on screen can simply select the tile size in pixels.
Then to include actual lighting information from light sources in the scene,
you can activate volumetric lighting and volumetric shadows.
In general,
volumetric shakers are much less expensive to render and
tv but that also comes at the cost of accuracy
and one obvious drawback of volumetrics and Eve is that the shape of the volume
follows the objects bounding box and not the actual mesh as a dozen cycles.
That can only be counteracted by shaping the volume from within the shader.
So to show a little bit more what
it means to work with procedural volumetric shakers.
Let me quickly show you an easy way to create these volumetric clouds.
Clouds are a great application of procedural volumetric shakers because they are
very difficult to get right with a mesh or particle system.
Creating clouds with actual simulation can also be
quite difficult and is extremely cost intensive.
Actually creating basic procedural volumetric clouds is quite simple
with the regular Perlin noise.
You have a three dimensional noise that has a pattern
which already comes close to the general look of clouds.
If we simply grab a noise texture modified with a map range note
and stick that into the density input of a principled volume shader.
We are already halfway there. I'm going to use the global coordinates again.
And that way we can simply adjust the
domain object without stretching the cloud shapes inside.
Also right now the cloud scape is just cut off at all the edges.
I'm fine with that on the sides but at the top
and bottom it should fade out in a smooth layoff clouds
to do that.
I simply grab the generated coordinates and use the zet component
to create a mirror gradient from the center to the edges.
That can then be adjusted and subtracted from the
noise to manipulate the density towards the edges.
Here you can really see the
three dimensional application of procedural texture ring
obviously to get actual realistic clouds.
There is still quite a long way to go but
it nicely shows the principle of these volumetric shakers.
And one last thing I want to do for this example here is to make the noise
pattern look less regular and a bit more dynamic
and fuzzy by adding an additional noise texture.
What I do is simply manipulate the coordinates
of the noise texture with the second noise.
Using a linear light operation
this warps the noise creating a much more interesting and natural looking noise you
probably have seen or will seem using this specific set up quite a lot.
It is quite a simple way of making the noise texture look less generic and
it's highly adjustable with the amount of warping
and the individual parameters of both noises.
Procedural volumetric shade is like this can also be animated in the
cloud seen that you can download and take a look at.
I set it up to play as a simple time lapse.
We will talk about how to animate
traders in the dedicated chapter about automation and
I will show you how I created the animated volumetric fire for the example scene.
But for now this is all I want to
talk about in terms of procedural volumetric shakers.